) Success! Obeisance to Purushottama:

( (Formerly) there (was), in the family of the descendants of Munda who performed an Asvamedha sacrifice, (a Brahmana named) Soma who belonged to the Bharadvaja gotra, was a most devout worshipper of Bhagavat (Vishnu) (and) took delight in the study of the four Vedas.

(Verse 1) He (Soma) did not feel conceited by studying with his single mouth the four Vedas which Brahmă recited with his four mouths.

(Lines 7-8) (Thereafter) there was his son named Vardhana, meditating on his feet, who augmented (the glory of) his family.

(Verse 2) Regular performance of religious duties and observances, righteous conduct, learning, love for guests and austerities-This was the ever continuing and extremely difficult vow of that (Vardhana) of noble mind.

(Lines 13-14) (Then) there was his son Munda meditating on his feet, who never accepted any gift.

(Verse 3) In the sacrifices of (that Brahmaņa Munda) whose hand was never tainted by the acceptance of any gifts, who was always engaged in the observance of vows and was (always) initiated for sacrifices, there used to fall from heaven a large shower of wealth poured by the gratified Indra.

(Verse 4) Even as serpents with their raised hoods bear on (their folds) God Vishnu, so the descendants (of that Brahmana Munda) even now bear his praiseworthy jewel-like name with their heads held high- (the name) which is suggestive of special merits, which

has become famous by their noble deeds. which is praised by the people, has invested the family with (great) prestige, (and) which has become well known by (his) merits.

(Lines 22-25) (Thereafter) there was his son, the illustrious Rashtra-mahārāja, who meditated on his feet and who had obtained a royal title by his merits. (Then) there was his son (named) Räjakula-mahārāja, meditating on his feet-

(Verse 5) Who offered to (the fire in the form of) a battle the offerings of the lives of (his) enemies spotless with fame (the fire) the flames of which are in the form of the spears of warriors and which is produced from the aranis (fire-sticks) in the form of hostilities.

(Verse 6) His son is well known by the name of Adityarāja, who is fair-complextioned like a cluster of golden lotuses, who, like the moon, gladdens the ayes of the whole world by his splendour, (and) who in prowess resembles Rama, Ambarisha and Sagara.

(Lines 42-45) That Adityarāja, being in good health, informs, with the consent of Yajñarāja, the Uparikas, the Kumärämätyas, the Dandapäsikas the chatās, bhats, the käshthikas (stall-bearers), the Dütapreshanikas, the Viniyuktakas and others who reside in the bhoga (territorial division) of Ankishtha and have assembled here as follows:-

"Be it known to you that for the augmentation of religious merit and fame of Our parents and Ourselves, We have, with the pouring out of water. donated the (followings) villages, (viz.) Mahāgrāma, two Chikkhallikās, Amrakagartikā, Lauhaśalakā, Chinchapallika, Niggondijjhāra, Daharakapatattā, Amravățaka, Simsapādikä and Bujjataka to the (following) Brahmaņas, (viz.) Matulasvamin of the Bharadvaja gotra, Bhattasvamin, Agnisvamin, Dityasvamin, Droņasvamin, Nannasvamin, Süryasvamin, Kälisarman, and others."

(Verse 7) Many kings like Sagara and others enjoyed the earth. He who owns the earth (at a parti cular time) gets the (religious) reward (of the gift) of that time.

(Verse 8) The giver of land rejoices in heaven for six thousand years. (But) he who confiscates it or consents (to the confiscation), dwells in a hell for the same (number of years).

(Line 50) The year 2, the summer fortnight 2, [and] the day 15