(3–13) Hail! Fortune! From the victorious camp
of Nandivardhana, the illustrious king Pr̥thivīśrīmūla, blessed by the feet of his parents; upholder of all laws on class and stage of life, in impeccable manner, through [his] intelligence and discrimination produced by [his] perception of the meanings of the words enjoined in revelation and tradition; who had undertaken the heavy burden of sovereignty with the sole purpose of
favoring others; conqueror on numerous occasions of battle-collision with elephants; who had brought fruit to his enjoyment of life by incessant grants of cows, lands, golds and maidens, etc.; devout worshiper of Maheśvara; extremely devout; son of the celebrated great king Śrī Prabhākara, whose fame was the
ornament of all quarters of space, whose unsurpassed store of merit had been obtained by the veneration of the feet of gods, brahmins and masters — he commands all residents of his (?) own district, as follows:
Be it known to you that, in order to favor my dear son (i.e., Harivarman), having endorsed (adhiṣṭhāya) the officer in charge of constructions and renovations residing on the Aparaśaila (to oversee the gift), the field Taṁgodunaruva, in the middle of the villages Tāṇḍikoṇḍa, Curppāḍuppuḷa, Velkoṇḍa, Kuriki, Arṭṭaluvuḷ and Kaṁsāryya, in the Tāḻupāka district, has been given by me—with complete exemption of taxes—for the purpose of the requisites consisting in robe, almsfood, lodgings (lit. bed and seat), as well as medicine to cure the sick, of the community of noble excellent monks of the four quarters, residing in the mahāvihāra of śākyabhikṣus that had been established by him (i.e., my son) in Tāṇḍikoṇḍa. Moreover, at Tāṇḍikoṇḍa has been given land of forty nivartanas to the east of the elephant grove. Moreover, land of ten nivartanas has been given together with the Big Grove (peruntoṭṭam). No-one may make any trouble in this connection. And there are verses pronounced by Manu on this matter:

II.
The destiny of those who slay their master, a cow, a brahmin, a child, a woman or an ascetic, will be the one of him who seizes [the land/livelihood] that is marked by a (royal) charter.

III.
Hear the fruit of the virtuous man who protects it scrupulously: during numerous thousands of aeons he plays in heaven with the gods.

IV.
There is not and will not be any higher gift than the gift of land. There is not and will not be any worse sin than the theft of the same.

V.
The giver of land stays in heaven for sixty thousand years; the one who seizes [land] as well as the one who approves (of the seizing) will reside as many [years] in hell.

VI.
By numerous [kings], land has been given; and by many it has been protected. Whoever holds land at a given moment, to him does the fruit then belong.

(31) The charter has been dated in the forty-third victorious year.
VII.
As long as moon, sun and oceans [last], and as long as this earth [lasts], so long may the command of Śrī Mūlarāja protect this land!

