Hail! From the victorious residence at Kāṇḍāli, the illustrious king Pr̥thivī[śrī]mūla, blessed by the feet of his parents; impeccable upholder of all laws on class and stage of life, through [his] intelligence and discrimination produced by [his] perception of the meanings of the words enjoined in revelation and tradition; who had undertaken the heavy burden of sovereignty with the sole purpose of favoring others; devout worshiper of Maheśvara; son of the celebrated great king Śrī Prabhākara, whose fame was the ornament of all quarters of space, whose unsurpassed store of merit had been obtained by the veneration of the feet of gods, brahmins and masters, commands all residents of the district of Tāḻupāka, starting with the governors (rāṣṭrakūṭa), as follows:
(12–27) ‘Be it known to you that the village called Cūyipāka, amidst the four villages Viḷendi, Reṅguṭa, Kampāṟu and Tukura, has been given to forty-three (Brahmins), born from families of teachers, of various gotras, belonging to Ātharvaṇika families, by me, after I had received a formal request, for the sake of acquiring merit on behalf of (his) own parents, from the illustrious Indrādhirāja (‘overlord of Indra’), whose abundant and pure fame, spread over the surface of the earth, had been obtained by killing the Kumuda elephant (of the S/SW?) that was intoxicated as it faced the Supratīka elephant (of the NW) that had been mounted (by him) for battle whose clatter was produced by all kings who were pleased at having assembled out of the desire violently to uproot Indrabhaṭṭāraka; (by Indrādhirāja), who was the dear son of Mitavarman, who had more than once obtained victory in elephant combat, who was the moon born in the ocean which was the lineage of brahmins residing in Maṇalkuḍi, famous for giving birth to heaps of jewels of men, radiant and pure by the light of the good conduct and success of their famous ascendants — after I had made it into an agrahāra. It is to be safeguarded by all [of you], particularly by the Hastikośa and the Vīrakośa.’
(27–33) And also:
I.
The one who would steal land given by himself or another imbibes the sin of the slayer of of a hundred thousand cows.

II.
The giver of land revels sixty thousand years in heaven; the one who confiscates [land] as well as the one who approves (of the confiscation) will reside as many [years] in hell.

III.
Hear the fruit of the virtuous man who protects it scrupulously: during numerous thousands of aeons he plays in heaven with the gods.

IV.
By numerous [kings], land has been given; and by many it has been protected. Whoever holds land at a given moment, to him does the fruit then belong.

(34–35) The executor is [the king’s] own mouth. Twenty-five 25 years of [his] prosperous, victorious reign. [Fortnight] 4 of the rains. Day 3.
