Success! In the year 42, in the month of Vaiśākha, Rishabhadatta, son of Dinika and son-in-law of the Kshaharāta Kshatrapa Rajan Nahapāna, dedicated this cave to the (Buddhist) Community of the four quarters. Besides, he gave a permanent endowment of three thousand-3000-kärshāpanas to the (Buddhist) Community of the four quarters. It will be utilised for the expenses of the clothing and the medicinest of the Bhikshus living in this cave.

(Line 2) And these kärshāpaņas have been invested in the guilds at Govardhana one of them of 2000 kärshāpanas being invested in a guild of weavers at the interest of one padika (karshāpana) (per month), and the other of 1000 kärshäpaņas being invested in another guild at the interest of three-fourths of a kärshapana (per month). These kärshapaņas are not to be paid back. Only their interest is to be utilised.
(Line 3) From the interest on the two thousand 2000-kārshāpanas invested at the rate of one padika (kärshāpaņa) per cent (per month) twenty mendicant monks dwelling in the rainy season in my Cave should get twenty (kärshāpanas) each for the expenses of their clothing. From (the interest on) the thousand kärshāpaņas invested at the rate of three-fourths of a podika (kārshäpaņa) per cent (per month) the expenses of their medicines should be met.

(Line 4) Eight thousand-8000 cocoanut trees in the village of Chikhalapadra in the chara (territorial division) of Kapura have been given by me to the Community of the Bhikshus).

All this has been announced in the Nigamasabha (Town-assembly) and has been recorded on wooden tablets according to custom.

(Line 4) Again, the gift of seven thousand-7000- kärshāpanas which he (mentally) gave to gods and Brahmaņas formerly in the year 41, on the fifteenth day of Kärttika, he actually delivered in the form of two thousand gold coins at the rate of one gold coin for thirty- five (silver) kärshäpanas on the fifteenth day of Kärttika in the year 45. (This has been recorded) on wooden tablets according to custom.